plant science and agronomy at the
University of Florida the agronomy
department at the University of Florida
is a diverse unique Department dedicated
to its students the department focuses
on enhancing and developing skills in
order for you to succeed in the future
students within this major can enter
either into one of two tracks one is the
science and technology track and that's
geared for students who want to go to
graduate school they take a wide array
of science courses and also some
specialized courses within the Plant
Sciences the other tract is sustainable
crop production and management and
students who enter this track have a
little bit more flexibility to kind of
tailor their their program to their
desired career objectives it's very easy
to get involved with our agronomy and
souls club we're fairly small and number
to a certain extent when you compare us
to other organizations on campus but
again we do have a lot of opportunity
for involvement and we don't require you
to pay dues to be in our club you just
show up to our meetings we have them
every two weeks and they're of an
afternoon so we make it convenient for
everybody to be there
I can't imagine that any professor would
ever turn down a student who's willing
to volunteer their own time and put
forth effort to learn students can come
in and work in the lab work in the
greenhouse work in the field and learn
directly from the researchers on how to
conduct experiments how to analyze their
data how to communicate what they learn
to the general public or to specific
audiences so there the Department is
small enough that we really can focus on
the students some of our students have
on and done International Studies
programs abroad as well as many of our
students go into international
agriculture development they may enter
the Peace Corps or they may get jobs
directly with agencies that work in
agriculture development worldwide
so in the area of biofuels we're looking
at biomass production of certain crops
so we see how much vegetative biomass
crops can produce under different
management conditions under different
environmental conditions and we also do
the process of help in the processing
side of it about which would be better
for producing things like ethanol and we
look at it also from the genetic
standpoint as well can we modify the
plant via better biomass plan and the
majority of plant breeders in the
agronomy Department are going to be
working with more traditional plants
those involved in production agriculture
meaning that they are the individuals
who are working to increase yield and
decrease problems related to pests and
if we decrease problems and increase
yield and we're making agriculture or
more sustainable industry
I can walk down the hall and stick my
head in people's office and they're
happy to see me they know my name I'm
happy to see them when I you know take a
class by the end of the class I know
something about the professor and they
know something about me they know
everyone and they know that you're not
just a student here on campus you're not
just a face you're not just a number
you're a person here that's contributing
to our university system and they care
about you they want you to do the best
that you can with their assistance there
are many different job opportunities
available to students who specialized in
plant science and grown in the at UF
there are several different avenues that
a student who is going into a grana me
major can pursue once they get done with
their four-year degree they can go
become an extension agent they can
become a chemical rep they could go
become a production farmer they could
become an agricultural consultant there
any numerous avenues that a student with
an agronomy degree could go into in the
field of Agriculture the Department of
agronomy provides students with a unique
experience that they will carry with
them throughout their careers